---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/process/
lang: en
title: Process from Start to Finish
category: process
cover: yes
published: true
---

This section lays out the process of a MapGive engagement from start to finish. The timeline can vary from something thrown together in just a few days for an urgent need, to a large scale, high profile event taking several months of preparation.

## Initiation

People learn about MapGive from [media coverage](http://mapgive.state.gov/mapgive-in-the-news/), [social media](https://twitter.com/mapgive), conferences, and internal recommendations. If it sounds like an intriguing tool for public diplomacy, learn and try it out, understand more about the process (ie this guide!) and [get in touch]({{site.baseurl}}/en/resources/contact/).

And early on, set up a channel for regular communication and organizing among your team. Frequently, tools like [Trello](https://trello.com/) are used to keep a clear picture of preparations and responsibilities.

## Support / Connection with the MapGive Team

The MapGive team is here to help support through the organization process. Start discussions over email and schedule time for a Skype or phone call if helpful.

## Determine the Need and Connect

Mapping can be used for a wide variety of applications. There are always needs around the world in humanitarian response, and economic development. Needs can be identified that align with local priorities in the Embassy; with country and topical desks, and with local and international partners. [Read more about generating ideas]({{site.baseurl}}/en/process/ideas/).

There are many potential partners to help identify needs, and collaborate on all aspects of a MapGive engagement. [Cultivating Partnships](/en/process/partners) has several recommendations.

## Technical Requirements: Imagery, Tasks, Stats

A MapGive engagement can have technical requirements, which the team may be able to help with.

Imagery, whether to fill a gap or provide an up to date view, is a common need. Read more about the [Imagery to the Crowd](http://mapgive.state.gov/ittc/) initiative, including how to request imagery. There are also details on [imagery coordination](http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/HOT_activation#Imagery_Coordination) from the Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team.

The [Tasking Manager](http://mapgive.state.gov/learn-to-map/#step-3) is often used to coordinate mapping projects. The MapGive team can help advise on selection of existing tasks, and the creation of new tasks.

Statistics and visualizations on activity in a mapping project are great motivations, and useful indicators. For example, [this page for the White House Mapathon](http://mapgive.state.gov/whmapathon/results/). There are a number of tools to use here, the team can advise.

## Event Planning / Logistics

The [event planning guide]({{site.baseurl}}/en/process/event-planning/) has details on all aspects of holding an event, from venue, participants, agenda, and budget condsiderations.

## Communications

_still editing, could use help, links to existing guidance_

* social media / blogging / hashtag / etc
* swag

## Follow Up

Critical, but often untended, are substantial follow ups. Events take a lot of energy to organize. Make sure to include follow ups in planning. This can include immediate thank yous to partners and participants. And further, establish points of contact and spaces for further communication and future collaborations.

