---
layout: case
permalink: /en/cases/ramallah/
lang: en
title: Ramallah
category: cases
published: true
image: ramallah.jpg
---

# What happened?
PD Jerusalem co-sponsored a “Mapathon” in Ramallah for forty Palestinian university students, who cooperated with students across the globe in the use of “open mapping” technology to put together maps of roads, bridges, and buildings that will  aid the international response to the Ebola crisis. 

The students aimed to finish the most comprehensive maps of various parts of West Africa over a six-hour period. The event presented an opportunity for Palestinian and American college students to interact virtually and learn from each other as they work on an important new technology. 

# What were the outcomes and how did this support strategic priorities?

* MRR: Improved or increased understanding of U.S. policies, society and values; 
* Strategic: Shaping the Narrative; Expanding and Strengthening People to People Relationships

# Who were the participants?


# What were the outputs?

The Palestinian students completed maps of about 25 square kilometers of Sierra Leone and Liberia during the event, which received coverage in local media. http://www.wattan.tv/ar/news/109342.html

# What did it take to organize?

On the Palestinian side, the event was organized by Souktel, a mobile phone services organization. 

# What was the role of Partners, and the MapGive team?

Light. We provided basic resources over the course of a few phone and email conversations.

