---
layout: case
permalink: /en/cases/cusco/
lang: en
title: Ramallah Mapathon
category: cases
published: false
image: ramallah.jpg
submitted: Jerome Sherman, ShermanJL2@state.gov 
---

# What happened?

PD Jerusalem co-sponsored a “Mapathon” in Ramallah. Students aimed to finish the most comprehensive maps of various parts of West Africa over a six-hour period. The maps of roads, bridges, and buildings aided the international response to the Ebola crisis.

The event presented an opportunity for Palestinian and American college students to interact virtually and learn from each other as they work on an important new technology. 

# What were the outcomes and how did they support Post's strategic priorities? What were the outputs and metrics?

* MRR: Improved or increased understanding of U.S. policies, society and values; 
* Strategic: Shaping the Narrative; Expanding and Strengthening People to People Relationships

The Palestinian students completed maps of about 25 square kilometers of Sierra Leone and Liberia during the event, which received coverage in local media. http://www.wattan.tv/ar/news/109342.html

# Who were the participants?

Forty Palestinian university students, who cooperated with students across the globe in the use of “open mapping” technology.

# What did it take to organize?

On the Palestinian side, the event was organized by Souktel, a mobile phone services organization. 

MapGive provided light support, through basic resources over the course of a few phone and email conversations.

